README.md, before:

# Compiler web service
Consists of two compilers: a Scheme to lambda calculus compiler and a Scheme to continuation passing style intermediate language. The backend is written in Common Lisp and the frontend is written in ReactJS.

# Using the program
1. Run `(ql:quickload :lambda-web)`. 

2. For this you need to clone this repo into a place SBCL can see -- i.e., `~/quicklisp/local-projects/`.

## Using the compiler
4. Run `(in-package #:scheme-to-lambda-calculus)`
5. Start the REPL: `(repl)`

       λ> (if ltrue 1 1)
       
       
       λ>
         (((LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))
           (LAMBDA NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
          (LAMBDA NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
          
## Using the web service
1. `(in-package :lambda-server)`
2. `(start-server)`
3. In your browser point to `http://localhost:4243/compile?exp=(if (= 2 2) 2 3)`
       

# Some Examples
```
(compile-scheme '(if ltrue 1 1))
(((LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))
  (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
 (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
 
* (compile-scheme '(and 1 1))
(((LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z))) (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
 (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
 
* (compile-scheme '(- 1 1))
(((LAMBDA (N)
    (LAMBDA (M)
      ((M
        (LAMBDA (N)
          (LAMBDA (F)
            (LAMBDA (Z)
              (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F))))) (LAMBDA (U) Z))
               (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
       N)))
  (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z))))
 (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z))))
 
* (compile-scheme '(+ 0 0))
(((LAMBDA (N) (LAMBDA (M) (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) ((M F) ((N F) Z))))))
  (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
 (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
 
* (compile-scheme '(* 0 0))
(((LAMBDA (N) (LAMBDA (M) (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) ((M (N F)) Z)))))
  (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
 (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
 
* (compile-scheme '(= 0 0))
((((LAMBDA (N)
     ((N (LAMBDA () (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
      (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
   (((LAMBDA (N)
       (LAMBDA (M)
         ((M
           (LAMBDA (N)
             (LAMBDA (F)
               (LAMBDA (Z)
                 (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F))))) (LAMBDA (U) Z))
                  (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
          N)))
     (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
    (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z))))
  (LAMB NIL
   ((LAMBDA (N)
      ((N (LAMBDA () (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
       (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
    (((LAMBDA (N)
        (LAMBDA (M)
          ((M
            (LAMBDA (N)
              (LAMBDA (F)
                (LAMBDA (Z)
                  (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F))))) (LAMBDA (U) Z))
                   (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
           N)))
      (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
     (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z))))))
 (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
 
* (compile-scheme '(quote ()))
(LAMBDA (ON-CONS) (LAMBDA (ON-NIL) (ON-NIL (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))


* (compile-scheme '(letrec ((f (lambda (n) (if (= n 0) 1 (* n (f (- n 1))))))) (f 5)))
((((LAMB F) (F (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F (F (F (F (F Z)))))))))
  ((LAMB (Y) (LAMB (F) (F (LAMB (X) (((Y Y) F) X)))))
   (LAMB (Y) (LAMB (F) (F (LAMB (X) (((Y Y) F) X)))))))
 ((LAMB (F (LAMB (VOID) VOID)))
  (LAMB (N)
   ((((((LAMBDA (N)
          ((N (LAMBDA () (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
           (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
        (((LAMBDA (N)
            (LAMBDA (M)
              ((M
                (LAMBDA (N)
                  (LAMBDA (F)
                    (LAMBDA (Z)
                      (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F))))) (LAMBDA (U) Z))
                       (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
               N)))
          N)
         (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z))))
       (LAMB NIL
        ((LAMBDA (N)
           ((N (LAMBDA () (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
            (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
         (((LAMBDA (N)
             (LAMBDA (M)
               ((M
                 (LAMBDA (N)
                   (LAMBDA (F)
                     (LAMBDA (Z)
                       (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F)))))
                         (LAMBDA (U) Z))
                        (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
                N)))
           (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
          N))))
      (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
     (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
    (LAMB NIL
     (((LAMBDA (N) (LAMBDA (M) (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) ((M (N F)) Z))))) N)
      (F
       (((LAMBDA (N)
           (LAMBDA (M)
             ((M
               (LAMBDA (N)
                 (LAMBDA (F)
                   (LAMBDA (Z)
                     (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F))))) (LAMBDA (U) Z))
                      (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
              N)))
         N)
        (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))))))))
```

# Acknowledgement
This tiny compiler is based on the one [compiler](https://matt.might.net/articles/compiling-up-to-lambda-calculus/) by Dr. Might. This tiny compiler, so far, it is just a re-write of his.

Commit message:

Added (launch) for app, dependency info, and README edit.

README.md, after:

# Compiler web service
Consists of two compilers: a Scheme to lambda calculus compiler and a Scheme to continuation passing style intermediate language. The backend is written in Common Lisp and the frontend is written in ReactJS.

# Installation and Loading
This project depends on[JZON](https://github.com/Zulu-Inuoe/jzon), which is not on quicklisp, so:

1. Clone JZON to your ASDF/quicklisp directory (wherever SBCL knows to look -- i.e., `~/quicklisp/local-projects/`). 

2. Clone this repo (compiler-web-service) to your ASDF/quicklisp directory. 

3. Load the lambda-web system: `(ql:quickload :lambda-web)`. 

## Using the compiler
1. Move to this package: `(in-package #:scheme-to-lambda-calculus)`.
2. Start the REPL: `(repl)`.

       λ> (if ltrue 1 1)
       
       
       λ>
         (((LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))
           (LAMBDA NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
          (LAMBDA NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
          
## Using the web service
1. Move to this package: `(in-package :lambda-server)`.
2. `(launch)` will start the server and open the app in your browser.

# Some Examples
```
(compile-scheme '(if ltrue 1 1))
(((LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))
  (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
 (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
 
* (compile-scheme '(and 1 1))
(((LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z))) (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
 (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
 
* (compile-scheme '(- 1 1))
(((LAMBDA (N)
    (LAMBDA (M)
      ((M
        (LAMBDA (N)
          (LAMBDA (F)
            (LAMBDA (Z)
              (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F))))) (LAMBDA (U) Z))
               (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
       N)))
  (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z))))
 (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z))))
 
* (compile-scheme '(+ 0 0))
(((LAMBDA (N) (LAMBDA (M) (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) ((M F) ((N F) Z))))))
  (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
 (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
 
* (compile-scheme '(* 0 0))
(((LAMBDA (N) (LAMBDA (M) (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) ((M (N F)) Z)))))
  (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
 (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
 
* (compile-scheme '(= 0 0))
((((LAMBDA (N)
     ((N (LAMBDA () (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
      (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
   (((LAMBDA (N)
       (LAMBDA (M)
         ((M
           (LAMBDA (N)
             (LAMBDA (F)
               (LAMBDA (Z)
                 (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F))))) (LAMBDA (U) Z))
                  (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
          N)))
     (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
    (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z))))
  (LAMB NIL
   ((LAMBDA (N)
      ((N (LAMBDA () (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
       (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
    (((LAMBDA (N)
        (LAMBDA (M)
          ((M
            (LAMBDA (N)
              (LAMBDA (F)
                (LAMBDA (Z)
                  (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F))))) (LAMBDA (U) Z))
                   (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
           N)))
      (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
     (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z))))))
 (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
 
* (compile-scheme '(quote ()))
(LAMBDA (ON-CONS) (LAMBDA (ON-NIL) (ON-NIL (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))


* (compile-scheme '(letrec ((f (lambda (n) (if (= n 0) 1 (* n (f (- n 1))))))) (f 5)))
((((LAMB F) (F (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F (F (F (F (F Z)))))))))
  ((LAMB (Y) (LAMB (F) (F (LAMB (X) (((Y Y) F) X)))))
   (LAMB (Y) (LAMB (F) (F (LAMB (X) (((Y Y) F) X)))))))
 ((LAMB (F (LAMB (VOID) VOID)))
  (LAMB (N)
   ((((((LAMBDA (N)
          ((N (LAMBDA () (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
           (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
        (((LAMBDA (N)
            (LAMBDA (M)
              ((M
                (LAMBDA (N)
                  (LAMBDA (F)
                    (LAMBDA (Z)
                      (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F))))) (LAMBDA (U) Z))
                       (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
               N)))
          N)
         (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z))))
       (LAMB NIL
        ((LAMBDA (N)
           ((N (LAMBDA () (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
            (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (T (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
         (((LAMBDA (N)
             (LAMBDA (M)
               ((M
                 (LAMBDA (N)
                   (LAMBDA (F)
                     (LAMBDA (Z)
                       (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F)))))
                         (LAMBDA (U) Z))
                        (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
                N)))
           (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) Z)))
          N))))
      (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (T) (LAMBDA (F) (F (LAMBDA (VOID) VOID))))))
     (LAMB NIL (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))
    (LAMB NIL
     (((LAMBDA (N) (LAMBDA (M) (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) ((M (N F)) Z))))) N)
      (F
       (((LAMBDA (N)
           (LAMBDA (M)
             ((M
               (LAMBDA (N)
                 (LAMBDA (F)
                   (LAMBDA (Z)
                     (((N (LAMBDA (G) (LAMBDA (H) (H (G F))))) (LAMBDA (U) Z))
                      (LAMBDA (U) U))))))
              N)))
         N)
        (LAMBDA (F) (LAMBDA (Z) (F Z)))))))))))
```

# Acknowledgement
This tiny compiler is based on the one [compiler](https://matt.might.net/articles/compiling-up-to-lambda-calculus/) by Dr. Might. This tiny compiler, so far, it is just a re-write of his.
